# Welcome to Learn

Welcome to Learn! We're thrilled that you've joined our community of learners!
In this lesson, we want to talk about the Learn platform and philosophy.

The Learn platform is designed for people who are passionate, curious,
self-driven, and serious about learning.

We are comrades in a never-ending quest for knowledge. While there are no
shortcuts, we believe that by providing knowledge in an optimized order,
reinforcing knowledge with automated feedback from hands-on labs, and providing
space for discussion and feedback you will learn quickly. Learn is Flatiron
School's framework for delivering that experience to you.  Our goal is provide
you with the right materials, support and structure _you_ need to discover your
own love for the material.

## Building Birdhouses

Imagine that we want to learn how to build a birdhouse but do not have any
experience with carpentry. Where would we start? Is it necessary to _first_
learn everything about the particular type of wood we are using? Or how nails
and hammers are made?

No. It may be _valuable_ to know what type of wood we're using. It may be
_interesting_ to understand how nails are made. However, these facts won't stop
us from successfully building a birdhouse. In fact, we likely won't fully
appreciate the materials, the wood and nails we're using until we've gone
through the experience of _building the birdhouse first_.

We call this approach "starting in the middle." We neither work bottom-up
(explaining wood and nail manufacture as a first step) nor top-down (here's a
bird house, take it apart and distill each concept until you reach an atomic
idea). Instead we work from the middle: provide a relatable context, try it,
try it again, break it down (a bit) and then explain how it integrates to the
next idea. Let's imagine how this relates to birdhouses.

After building birdhouse "Version 1," we can go back and better understand the
best type of wood to use for our purposes, or realize that glue works just as
well as nails and is much easier to use.  When we build birdhouse "Version 2,"
we'll repeat the original again, but it'll be way better. By birdhouse "Version
3," we'll know how everything fits together just by _looking_ at the materials.
By "Version 15" we'll have developed a custom birdhouse building tool that uses
phone location to choose the optimal wood for the bug populations and climates,
cuts the wood, glues the edges, assembles and ships the birdhouse within 30
seconds of order.

Look! We just built a birdhouse empire without knowing _any_ of the details
of nail manufacture, wood harvesting, or the biology of birds.

## Writing Code

Learning how to program is not much different.  Where do we start? How do we
know what is necessary to understand _first?_ Again, we _start in the middle_.

Learn handles the guiding from the middle, _for you_. It provides an
environment that you don't have to build from scratch. We _give_ you a place to
code. You get to focus on coding, not setup.

Most people on Learn have already been learning to code a bit by using the
amazing and plentiful resources all around the internet. In developing the
content here on Learn, though, we make no assumptions. It is designed for
absolute beginners. Lessons build off each other, providing the tools and
concepts necessary to complete future lessons.

What we don't do, however, is dumb anything down. We believe in your infinite
capacity to learn. We do our best to offer a curriculum that is clear,
digestible, engaging, challenging, and deep. The curriculum you'll encounter on
Learn is rigorous and will demand that you be patient, resourceful, and gritty.

From the beginning, we'll make sure you have the support and tools you need;
you just need to bring the grit.

## The Learn Community

We don't believe in learning alone. As you make progress, expect to bump into
other learners just like you, ready and willing to help each other succeed.
Together, we can go further than we could ever go alone. We expect everyone on
Learn to be friendly, respectful, helpful, and nice. Learn is something special.

If you get stuck following the instructions, ask! If you get stuck getting a
coding concept, ask!  Instructors from the community will be glad to help.
There is an 'Ask a Question' button in all lessons on
[Learn.co](https://learn.co) for this reason. You can also see questions from
other students who may be working on similar problems.

## The In-Browser Learn IDE

As mentioned previously, one of the time-consuming parts of getting started
with programming is setting up your work environment. There's a lot room for
error! Also many computers need extra programs or setup to be used for
coding. Many would-be developers have tossed their laptops out the window in
frustration around environment setup.  They wrongly assumed that "If I can't
_set up_ the language, there's no way I can _use_ the language." Nothing can be
further from the truth!

Learn provides a solution for this so you can get to writing code faster: the
in-browser Learn IDE.  The in-browser IDE is a fully-functional text editor and
command line interface, connected with your GitHub account through Learn. It
automates some steps for us and also comes with some built in command line
tools such as `learn`, used for running tests in later lessons. If "command
line" and "editor" are still new concepts to you, don't worry, you'll be
getting to know them in upcoming work.

Later, when you dive deeper and create your own projects, you'll likely
decide to set up your own work environment. If you're already comfortable in
the command-line and with a text editor, you might want to set up your own
local environment instead. If that describes you, visit this [guide][].

If you have opted for the in-browser IDE, you'll notice a 'Sandbox' button on
the top right of this lesson readme. This will also extend to all other READMEs
as well. The Sandbox acts as a scratch pad for practicing as you read lessons,
and will save any files you create or edit for later reference.  On lessons
where there are tests, the 'Sandbox' button becomes an 'Open IDE' button,
which, when clicked, will create your own copy of the lesson files to work on.

Resources for setting up are linked at the bottom of this lesson. And remember,
if you're not sure of something, feel free to use the 'Ask a Question' button!

## Conclusion

You're just getting started, and we're happy you're here. To proceed to the next
lesson, press the "I'm Done" button in the right rail then click "Next Lesson".

Happy Learning!

## Resources

- [Changing Your Learn Environment](http://help.learn.co/the-learn-ide/changing-your-learning-environment)
- [The IDE in Browser](http://help.learn.co/the-learn-ide/ide-in-browser)
- [Downloading and Using the Standalone Learn IDE](http://help.learn.co/the-learn-ide/how-to-download-and-use-learn-ide-3)
- [Learn IDE FAQ](http://help.learn.co/the-learn-ide)
- [Ask a Question FAQ](http://help.learn.co/ask-a-question)
- [Learn Community FAQ](http://help.learn.co/your-learn-community)
- [Workflow Tips for Custom Local Environments](http://help.learn.co/workflow-tips)

<p data-visibility='hidden'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/the-learn-philosophy' title='The Learn Philosophy'>The Learn Philosophy</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>

[guide]: http://help.learn.co/the-learn-ide/the-basics-of-the-learn-ide/using-the-ide-versus-a-local-environment
